hi I'm John Lincoln with Vicente today
I'm sitting here with Bob Harmon founder
and CEO of that stem so about what is
the best em did and so we are the first
in a new sort of class of company during
regenerative medicine the first one is
in veterinary and we enable a veterinary
for example a few of a dog and a
veterinarian we enable the veterinarian
to be able to truly do now stem cell
therapy in animals and not a little bit
about how we do that but it's basically
what we do will actually allow the
veterinarian by helping them with the
lab portion of the work to actually
treat animals with their own stem cells
is it all animals are just dogs because
I've heard that it was mostly dogs that
you guys were focused on yeah we
actually started in 2002 with horses I'm
a horseman equestrian by background okay
raised here in San Diego like you and
it's always very passionate about that
so we started out doing actually tendon
and ligament disease and the horse okay
and if you watch horse racing or the
equestrian events at the Olympics which
are coming up this summer they get lots
of orthopedic injuries god it's like
human athletes do and so we started out
treating those we've treated over 3,000
horses well and you guys have made some
advances in that area too is that
correct I saw you I you had some awards
in the lobby for that yeah we have we
really are really the first ones to
actually do this on a commercial basis
okay it's done a lot of research as you
hear about research in stem cell therapy
we've actually done it now commercially
again using an animal's own stem cells
not embryonic stem cells not stem cells
from embryos which is all the
controversy but actually treating an
animal with their own stem cells and
these stem cells come from fat now can
you describe the stem cell process for
me how does that work exactly how do you
guys do it yeah the way we do it back in
in the late 90s a group at University of
Pittsburgh discovered that these stem
cells were very high concentration in
fact of adipose tissue which we all have
our animals all have so there's a nice
reservoir of it and so they discovered
that these stem cells were in there and
they could take these stem cells and
turn them into bone or cartilage or
heart tissue so they look like they were
highly valuable for use we took that
learning so we sort of stood on their
shoulders and said well
may-maybe we could actually do this
consciously so if you for example had a
dog or horse and it had an orthopedic
injury had arthritis had a tendon injury
your veterinarian after getting
instruction from us would collect a
small sample of fat literally a couple
of tablespoons of fact just from under
the skin very simple in the horses just
hits on a weight procedure not even
under anesthesia notice the large feel
that there's my takane put around just
like when you would get l kept dental
you know so it's numb and so they really
don't feel that we put it a little
sterile to your veterinarian would then
FedEx it overnight to us here in San
Diego then extracts during the day the
same date comes in so it comes out at
nine o'clock they extract and they get
rid of the fact we don't actually use
the fat these stem cells are hiding out
in and around the fat and by the blood
vessels and we spin them out digest away
the connective tissue and then we end up
with this nice little pellet of these
regenerative cells at the end of the day
we put it in a syringe back in the FedEx
box and back to your event the next day
so that's how it works so now what are
your results so far today and kind of
from a business perspective how are you
guys doing yeah so we are growing by
leaps and bounds we're going to triple
again this year in terms of size whereas
you'll see walking on our laboratory
here we've got about 8,000 square feet
of laboratory office space or sort of
busting at the seams and we're going to
have to expand again so from a business
standpoint the owners and the
veterinarians get this interesting it
and once the dogs or you know horses or
animals get this treatment and they just
bounce right back it's like they're ten
years younger is that there are
certainly some that it really is almost
managing can you see you know they
really come back quite dramatically
another one's not so dramatically so we
want people understand it isn't magic
the time isn't turned back where they
really are you know a 15 year old dog
doesn't become a puppy movie they
sometimes act like that but they really
get some of their normal daily function
back or ability to perform the case of a
horse stem cells are kind of a new thing
as far as from a long-term impact
standpoint what do you think that
they're going to have on animals and
humans so the big work on the human side
of the equation is in cardiovascular
disease heart disease the neuro life
diseases for example Alzheimer's and
Parkinson's stroke spinal cord injury
those kind of things is huge millions
and millions being spent internationally
a lot in the US on using these adult
stem cells meaning not from embryos but
either from a person or from an adult
tissue okay like bone marrow or fat or
skin something like that so they're
they're very usable right now one of the
keys to these cells particularly the way
we do it it's the animals own cells
there's nothing to reject there's no
foreign material in there all we do is
do a separation and give the animal back
their own cells so we think in the areas
that are beyond even orthopedics for
example right now we're studying liver
disease and kidney disease if you have
cats many old cats have F chronic kidney
disease for their kidneys fail we're in
early studies on that and we think it's
promising that we can do something
really good there on the human side
there are these studies going on in the
u.s. people being treated right now in
clinical studies and around the world so
this is really moving ahead quite
rapidly a lot of money being spent and a
lot of progress being made so I would
not be surprised within a couple of
years we have the first therapies coming
actually online commercially for people
excellent well I'm glad that the future
is looking so bright for you Bob thank
you so much for taking the time to talk
to her John pleasure this been Bob
Harmon CEO vet stem and John Lincoln
miss san diego